you can go to Osama hamon he's a senior
spokesperson for Hamas he's joining us
on the line from Beirut thank you very
much indeed for being with us can you
tell us what if anything has been agreed
by
Hamas well thank you for having me I I
have to say that we are still
negotiating And discussing the all all
the the points with the mediators the
karies and the Egyptians and it's clear
that we are moving forward there's some
good points uh there's some real
uh uh reaction from the other side but
till now we are still talking about the
main issue which is the complete
ceasefire and complete withdrawal from
Gaza we hope to find some good and
positive answers today if that happened
we will go through uh uh this to uh
declare uh a positive uh answer if I may
say that one of the key elements has
also been the
Benjamin netanyahu's stated aim of
sending the Israeli military into Rafa
whether or not a ceasefire is signed or
what is your position in that what's
your understanding um of that and have
there been any guarantees given about
preventing that from
happening well uh through the talks
there was uh some uh guarantees that
this will not take place if there was a
ceasefire but
unfortunately uh there was a clear
statement from uh n
saying that regardless to what may
happen if there was a ceasefire or not
he will continue the attack against that
means there will be no ceas fire and
that means the the the attack will be
continued which is against what we are
discussing at least we we we want to
know exactly what does it mean his
statement and the reaction from the
mediators U our understanding that any
achievement for a c far means that there
will be no more attack against Gaza any
place in Gaza including
and if I understand what you're saying
correctly sir the the distance between
what you of what Hamas is hoping for out
of these negotiations and what Benjamin
Netanyahu intends for Gaza and in
particular Rafa is very wide and yet you
seem optimistic that there can be some
movement forward can you give us an
indication of where you think there is
some there is some room for negotiation
to close that
Gap well in fact we we are negotiating
for more than three months and um each
time we are making uh uh
uh some uh forward steps but we didn't
achieve uh what what really we want uh
which is a complete ceas and withdrawal
from gazda but I believe we can't talk
about either optimistic or pessimistic
we have to talk about the real position
of the United States because that is the
main issue which will affect the
position of the Israelis and mainly NY
if the United States Administration have
said clearly to Netanyahu enough is
enough you have to do this and that I I
assure you that will happen so let's say
the the the the one who is supposed to
answer the questions now the Americans
and no one else if they decide that this
must stop it will happen this is what we
are about now and I think the mediators
our brothers in Egypt and K they are
doing a good job they are doing their
best to achieve that this is why we are
still hoping to achieve the main goal a
complete ceas fire and withdrawal from G
um I I want to put a scenario to you if
the US was prepared to give a guarantee
that the Israeli military was not going
to go into Rafa at under any
circumstances would that be enough of a
guarantee for you to sign this SE or the
at least the initial stage of this
ceasefire
agreement when the guarantee is
important uh and if that was given that
will give a good bush bush for the the
the negotiations but also we need clear
steps to be uh uh decided and written in
the paper which we will all agree on so
the uh guarantees are needed but we also
Al we need a clear statements which
clarify the position and uh the
commitments of each side because as we
all know Israelis are trying every time
to get out of their commitments so the
guarantees are not enough it's important
but it's not only the needed thing we
need guarantees and we need also clear
commitments can I clarify with you sir
the the the the way the the logistics of
what is playing out here are we talking
about an aim to to get a a final
permanent agreement on uh a long-term
ceasefire or are we talking about the
initial stage of several stages working
towards an eventual permanent
ceasefire well what we are talking about
is uh a complete Arrangements we are not
talking just about the first stage we
are talking about an enragement
including the three St stages and a
longterm C fire and that was clear uh in
our position from day number one uh
Anthony blinkin the US Secretary of
State said in his recent visit to Israel
that the the pressure was on Hamas to
accept this any sort of ceasefire
agreement though certainly the one that
Israel had put forward um by making
concessions should you choose to do so
in the negotiations later on today do
you feel that takes the pressure off
Hamas and places it back with
Israel well it's clear that like what Mr
Brink have said most of the time the
pressure was on Hamas and I believe now
they understand well that the one who's
undermining the process all the time was
n himself so they need to make a real
pressure on the Israeli side because he
is the occupier he's the the attacker
he's the killer he is the the side who
is doing the genocide in Gaza
more pressure NY will make us close to
make the needed Arrangements I believe
that if Mr Blinn spent some few more
hours in in in t Aviv he will achieve
the needed Arrangement rather than
talking about the Shon ham uh one final
question sir I want to ask you in terms
of what you the time scale that you're
talking about in your assessment how
close is Hamas and Israel to reaching a
deal that will eventually see the
fighting stop in
Gaza well I have to say we need to hear
one sentence from uh the mediators as a
commitment from Israel a complete
ceasefire complete withdrawal from Gazza
rebuilding uh Gaza if that happened with
I have to add also with a fair prisoner
exchange if that if that was a
commitment from Israel I think we will
achieve directly the needed Arrangements
and Senior spokesperson for hamus we
appreciate it thank you very much
indeed make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer